[expo-updates][docs] New quick start guide for updates (#21138)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/eas-update-with-local-build.mdx

<Step label="1">
## Install the latest EAS CLI

EAS CLI is the command-line app that you will use to interact with EAS services from your terminal. To install it, run the command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install --global eas-cli']} />

You can also use the above command to check if a new version of EAS CLI is available. We encourage you to always stay up to date with the latest version.

> We recommend using `npm` instead of `yarn` for global package installations. You may alternatively use `npx eas-cli`, just remember to use that instead of `eas` whenever it's called for in the documentation.

</Step>

<Step label="2">
## Create a project

Create a project by running:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app']} />
</Step>

<Step label="3">
## Configure your project

To configure your project, run the following commands in the order they are specified:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Install the latest `expo-updates` library',
    '$ npx expo install expo-updates',
    '',
    '# Initialize the app in EAS',
    '$ eas init',
    '',
    '# Initialize your project with EAS Update',
    '$ eas update:configure',

>     '',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This blank line should not be needed.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```xml Expo.plist
<!-- @hide ... your existing configuration --> <!-- @end -->
    <!-- @info New --> <key>EXUpdatesRequestHeaders</key> <!-- @end -->
    <!-- @info New --> <dict> <!-- @end -->
      <!-- @info New --> <key>expo-channel-name</key> <!-- @end -->
      <!-- @info New --> <string>main</string> <!-- @end -->
    <!-- @info New --> </dict> <!-- @end -->
<!-- @hide ... your existing configuration --><!-- @end -->
```

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```xml AndroidManifest.xml
<!-- @hide ... your existing configuration --> <!-- @end -->
    <!-- @info New --> <meta-data android:name="expo.modules.updates.UPDATES_CONFIGURATION_REQUEST_HEADERS_KEY" android:value="{&quot;expo-channel-name&quot;:&quot;main&quot;}"/> <!-- @end -->
<!-- @hide ... your existing configuration --><!-- @end -->
```

> If you do not see the above lines added to these files, it means that you are using SDK 47 or earlier, and you should add these lines manually to **AndroidManifest.xml** and **Expo.plist**.

</Step>

<Step label="5">
## Build the project

Run the following commands to get the app running on Android or iOS.

<Terminal

>   cmd={[
>     '# iOS: Build and run the app on a local iOS Simulator.',
>     '$ npx expo run:ios --configuration Release',
>     '',
>     '# Android: Build and run the app on a local Android Emulator',
>     '$ npx expo run:android --variant release',
>     '',
>   ]}
>   cmdCopy="npx expo run:ios --configuration Release && npx expo run:android --variant release"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cmd={[
    '# Android: Build and run the app on a local Android Emulator',
    '$ npx expo run:android --variant release',
    '',
    '# iOS: Build and run the app on a local iOS Simulator.',
    '$ npx expo run:ios --configuration Release',
  ]}
  cmdCopy="npx expo run:android --variant release && npx expo run:ios --configuration Release"
```

Platform order.

</Step>

<Step label="6">

Make the modifications below to **App.js** so that the app uses the `Updates` API to show if it has downloaded and run an update.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
``` jsx App.js
import { StatusBar } from 'expo-status-bar';
import { StyleSheet, Text, View } from 'react-native';
/* @info New */ import * as Updates from 'expo-updates'; /* @end */

export default function App() {
  /* @info New */ const runTypeMessage = Updates.isEmbeddedLaunch /* @end */
  /* @info New */   ? 'This app is running from built-in code' /* @end */
  /* @info New */   : 'This app is running an update'; /* @end */
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Open up App.js to start working on your app!</Text>
      /* @info New */ <Text>{runTypeMessage}</Text> /* @end */
      <StatusBar style="auto" />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    backgroundColor: '#fff',
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
```

Then build and run the app again:

<Terminal

>   cmd={[
>     '# iOS: Build and run the app on a local iOS Simulator.',
>     '$ npx expo run:ios --configuration Release',
>     '',
>     '# Android: Build and run the app on a local Android Emulator',
>     '$ npx expo run:android --variant release',
>     '',
>   ]}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cmd={[
    '# Android: Build and run the app on a local Android Emulator',
    '$ npx expo run:android --variant release',
    '',
    '# iOS: Build and run the app on a local iOS Simulator.',
    '$ npx expo run:ios --configuration Release',
  ]}
```

Platform ordering nit.

>   cmdCopy="npx expo run:ios --configuration Release && npx expo run:android --variant release"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cmdCopy="npx expo run:android --variant release && npx expo run:ios --configuration Release"
```

Same changge as above, to match.

/>

The app should appear as in the screenshot below.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="App running for the first time"
  src="/static/images/eas-update/getting-started-before-update.png"
  style={{maxHeight: 600, width: 'auto'}}/>
</Step>

<Step label="7">

## Publish an update

Now we're ready to publish an update that will include our changes.

After optionally making additional changes to **App.js**, publish an update with the following command:

> <Terminal cmd={['$ eas update', '']} cmdCopy="eas update" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update']} />
```

Snippet simplification.

  style={{ maxHeight: 600, width: 'auto' }}
/>

</Step>

## Testing updates with a debug build of your app

It is possible to [create a debug build that will load updates from EAS instead of loading from a React Native packager](/eas-update/debug-updates/#debugging-of-native-code-while-loading-the-app-through-expo-updates).

To do this for the above app, modify step 4 above as follows:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Set the environment variable needed for native debug builds',
    '$ export EX_UPDATES_NATIVE_DEBUG=1',
    '',
    '# Run prebuild to install and configure the ios and android directories, and install Cocoapods for iOS.',
    '$ npx expo prebuild',
    '',
    '# iOS: Modify the application project so that the application JavaScript',
    '',
    '# is bundled into the app for both debug and release builds.',
    "$ sed -i '' 's/SKIP_BUNDLING/FORCE_BUNDLING/g;' ios/<project name>.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj",
    '',
    '# iOS: Build and run the app on a local iOS Simulator.',
    '$ npx expo run:ios --configuration Debug',
    '',
    '# Android: Build and run the app on a local Android Emulator',
    '$ npx expo run:android --variant debug',
    '',
  ]}
  cmdCopy={null}

> />

Reviewer: It would be nice to split those instruction per platform, maybe even we can use Tabs in there.

Author: I can work on that separately

---
title: EAS Update with a local build
description: Using EAS update directly with a local build environment
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> In this step by step guide, you'll create a new Expo app, run it in your local development environment, publish an update, and show that the app downloads and runs the update when restarted.
> 
> This guide goes into detail on some of the Expo config properties used in EAS Update and their functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this step-by-step guide, you'll create a new Expo app, run it in your local development environment, publish an update, and show that the app downloads and runs the update when restarted. It also details some of the Expo config properties used in EAS Update and their functions.
```
